Alright, in this example we are going
to look at setting up the enumeration
and you can see in our little data model,
I have a difficulty rating for the
Recipe and we just said easy, moderate or
hard and I defined it right over here in
the JPL language. I'm going to copy that
to my clipboard and toggle over to
IntelliJ and we're going to set up that
enumeration. So we want Recipe to have a
property of difficulty from that
enumeration. So let's jump over to
IntelliJ and I am going to go in and I'm
going to use the domain. Some people like
to do a separate package for enums. In
this case I think it's okay. Some people
might argue with me that. So I'm going to
call the enum Difficulty and we are
going to add that to Git for you guys. So
nothing too complex here. We have three
different values for Difficulty and next
we need to come over to our Recipe class
and add that in. Let's do that under
image and we'll go in and add in a
getter and setter. And that's just my
personal style. It is when I'm adding in new
properties and I just like to add them
in into the class at the bottom of
whatever was existing and then do the
same with the getters and setters. From
my own experience, it seems as you evolve
your data model and POJOs like this, that
seems to keep the code cleanest and
least confusing but that's my personal
opinion. I don't know if there's an official
specification on that or not. So now we
have the enum there and what we need to do
is set up an annotation on that and you can
see that IntelliJ is bringing up Enumerated from javax persistence
and let's take a look here. And let's get
this filtered down a little bit more and
we can see in javax persistence, we have
ORDINAL or STRING. Now this is very
important because we do have the two
types. Let's see if I can get that filter down.
There we go. That's better. We can set the
enum type to ORDINAL or STRING and this
is important about how it gets persisted
in the database.
ORDINAL is the default and that's
going to get, if you don't specify
anything there that is what gets
taken and what's going to happen in the
database if we do use ORDINAL. Let's
bring up difficulty again. It will get
persisted as one two and three and that
is the default behavior. Now if we use
STRING, it's going to get that String
value of the enum and persisted as a
String. And this is important because you
can come in and change this and you want
to do something like say kind of hard. Now if you did that on the fly like that,
we'll make it look a little bit better
with underscores. If you did it on the fly like,
that let's say you had an existing
database. Now anything that you had in
there and the hard value just changed
from three to four. So that's a not
a behavior that we want. So trick is, if
you can go in and use the String value
because the String values are going to
survive. So it you know if we're using
the String obviously hard isn't going to
change but if we're persisting the
number, and we insert a value into the
enum like I just did there, now any
existing data that we have is messed up
and it's going to need to be addressed.
And because the enum ordinal position
just change. So let's come back over here
and I am going to specify STRING. So
specify a  String value and that is
overriding the default behavior of
enumerations. So just a quick recap of
what we did here. As I went in and I created a new enum
for difficulty. It's got four properties
on it. EASY, MODERATE, KIND_OF_HARD and
HARD and then on Recipe, I added in a new
property and also added in getters and
setters for it and I'm using the
Enumerated type from javax persistence,
that annotation and overriding the
default to use an EnumType of STRING
which is going to store the String value
of the enum in the database.